Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
from hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number four 60. In this
episode, Scott talks with engine
works, founder, Carl Smith, about where
he thinks web design and
development are heading in 2015.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes, and I'm talking
with Carl Smith, web designer Xtrordinair
and advisor to engine works.
How are you? I'm good,
Scott, how are you doing
I'm okay. And I am
excited to talk to you
because you are always have
some really neat ideas about
web design and where it's
going, whether it be the
business model or the style
or whatever. And since, since
we're closing 2014 or depending
on when I publish the
show open, welcome to 2015.
I figured we'd talk about
web design in 2015. Where
do you think it's going?
Oh, that sounds, that sounds
great to me. I tell
you what 2014 was a
crazy year in the web
design space. If you had
a shop, there was a
good chance you had a
layoff or your best year
ever. And I did a
lot of research on that
talk to almost 140 owners
and still can't figure out
what the hell happened. So
why such extremes? Like I,
I did see a lot
of people saying that, like
this was the year of
templatization and then web design
was, was a under respected
and Oh, I don't need
a web designer. I'll just
pay 10 bucks and I'll
bootstrap it. Well, and here's
the best part. The best
templates were built by those
web design shops who are
now being defeated by the
templates they put out there.
Cause they had a slow
week. Ouch. Yeah. So personally
I think the templates have
a place in the industry.
There are a lot of
shops that can't afford a
$30,000 website. They might not
be custom. It might not
be perfect, but at least
gets them a better start
and it gets them responsive
where they wouldn't be otherwise.
So it at least helps
us get to a web
that, that seems to work
better. The thing that I
found out talking through with
a lot of the owners,
the biggest difference between shops
that were successful and shops
that struggled was if they
had a specialty or if
they were a generalist and
the generalist shops seem screwed.
And I'll tell you, my
company that I started engine
works. We had a layoff.
I mean, it was, it
was one of those things.
You've got a lot of
big companies That are building
in house teams now, and
they don't really see the
value in a generalist, but
if you're a specialist and
that could be that you
focus on an industry like
healthcare, or you have a
certain technology like Django, or
you might have a certain
discipline like UX, they still
see value in those people.
But in the generalist shop
space, you seem to be
losing. Do you think that
the RA, what I, what
I call the rise of
the front end developer means
that there are, I wouldn't
say too many, but an
awful lot of people who
know HTML, CSS and JavaScript
like this is it's almost,
I mean, this is, I'm
not trying to disrespect those
people. So bear with me
here, but like I blinked
and everyone is going in
and learning front end web
development, maybe because server side
where development's harder or less
accessible or you can't just
open a notepad and type
node, you know what I
mean? So we're really front
end heavy right now. Yeah,
no, we totally are. The
other thing that the journalists
deal with is front end
designers can put up a
website real quick and look
just as good as a
shop. That's 15 years old
and they can put whatever
price point they want there.
Especially if you're a solo
flyer. Now, what I've seen
on the dev shops is
a lot of them are
getting acquired. You've got, I
mean, same thing with UX
shops and some of the
specialty shops, but I think
customer or clients, what we
would have called clients now
who are, you know, traditional
companies are smarter and they
realized they're going to have
ongoing development needs. But one
of the things they want
is instead of just a
design, they kind of want
a design system now. So
you can hand over things
at Trent Walton at parallel,
who worked with Microsoft actually
on the new Microsoft site,
Trent was talking about how
that's most of what they
get asked for now is
designed systems. So they may
do a few pages to
show things, but it's really
a lot more about, these
are the types of elements.
These are the types, the
ways you're going to use
them. It's a true system.
What's the new Google flat
design thing that that's a
system, right? For people who
are listening, who may not
be familiar with this concept,
like it's like a branding
book like this. Yeah, It
is. And if you look
at Apple and the way
that Apple gives different direction
on iOS, and they ask
you to try to adhere
to these different standards, which
if you don't, you just
don't get in the store
a lot of times, but
that's exactly right. You have
some of the big players,
which we actually affectionately refer
to as the bigs that
are starting to work this
way as well, material design.
That's what it's called. That's
material design. Right. I think
that's the Google kind of
design system now. Gotcha. Gotcha.
People are saying like, you
know, you can, you know,
how do you make your
app look and feel and
fit within the Google brand?
Like if Google were going
to come up with another
app. Yeah. So it's almost
like a visual language in
that sense, not a visual
programming language, but exactly a
way to say these things
will feel familiar and will
be more readily adopted by
the people you're trying to
reach. Do, do you all
have like a COBOL or
do you get together and
decide like here's flat is
the new, Oh man. DD
beveled is the new black.
When are you, when are
you all deciding that? Because
it seems like the designers,
you know, I'm noticing new,
new things as a user
that I, yeah, Like a
drop shadows are coming back.
I want you to know
that we've been talking about
it and beveled edges never
went away. You know, it's
weird. It's a copycat industry.
That's one of the things
that bugs me, hero images
gave way to hero videos.
Oh the hero. Can we
just pause for a second?
And just, what are we
doing? I do not need
a blurry Fullscreen, MP4. That's
looped of like it's, it's,
you've gone from, you know,
clip art where it's like
women laughing while drinking coffee
has now become women laughing.
Well, looking at tablets alone.
And now it's looped videos
of women laughing with tablets.
A pay. Val is the
worst defender. That one person
in this gigantic office who's
walking by and you're like,
poor bastard. Why do you
have to work today? Everybody
else was either laid off
or left. And you're just
still there. If you know
that that is the nature.
One of the things that
bugs me the most about
the industry is we're lazy.
And I get in a
lot of trouble when I
say this, but it's true.
We will lean on best
practices. We will use responsive
web design as an excuse
for not being able to
do original things. And I
really hope in 2015 that
shifts, you know, in the
UK, they haven't leaned on
it as much as we
have in the U S
but it used to be,
we would tell clients they
couldn't do things because of
web standards, right before that
it was well flashes evil.
So unfortunately we can't do
any animation, you know, and
over time, all these things
become part of an acceptable
tool set, so you can
do them. So I really
hope in 2015, we see
original design come back. I
mean, listen, let's do some
things that enhance the message
and enhance the content, not
over the top. And like
you said, the hijack scroll,
it's like really? Yeah, Jackie,
I went to bill Gates
just released one of the
Gates notes that he does
every year. And when I
showed up there, I was
kind of staring at this
giant hero image and this
big web font. And then
I'm like, what do I
do now? And there's an
actual circle with an arrow
pointing down and it says,
scroll now I'm like, really
like, like, like your design
does not inspire me to
scroll. Therefore you put a
giant arrow pointing down saying
scroll now. But what you
said about being lazy is
really interesting. Like, Oh, we,
you know, we can't, we
can't do animation. I just
had Rachel neighbor's on the
show. And she was kind
of talking about how the
industry kind of pushed out
all the flash designers because
the flash tech was out
of Vogue. But that didn't
mean that the techniques that
the flash developers had designed
and come up with were
out of Vogue, but we
pushed them out of the
industry anyway. And then people
don't realize, Oh, we can
do this with CSS animation.
We do have the technology.
We're just too to do
it. Yeah. And you wonder
whatever happened. I mean, I
actually saw one of the
people from two advanced, maybe
four or five years ago,
and that was the flash
shop. I mean, we used
to have jokes that if
you were to go into
one of their presentations to
a client, there's like somebody
behind the guy presenting going,
and they're just like moving
these boards all around because
the stuff they would do
is insane. But it was,
I mean, it was strictly
entertainment. There was no way
you could look at that
as some sort of transfer
of information. It was more
of a transfer of a
feeling. I mean, they were
just, you were going to
enjoy it. But I think
Rachel's absolutely right through, there
was no reason to get
rid of some of the
concepts. Although I'll say this
too, there's no point in
having flash type animations on
Khan Academy. Right. You have
to know the context of
what you're trying to get
across. So maybe actually there
would be, if you were
showing some sort of a
chemical reaction or you're trying
to share something like that,
maybe it's really applicable. We
actually had a rule where
if we didn't think that
the client was in an
industry where flash was really
going to help them, we
just wouldn't do it. We
had a furniture, a woman
who imported furniture from Italy
and she really wanted this
crazy flashlight. We were like,
the people that can afford
your furniture are really old.
You're going to hurt their
eyes. This is not working.
But if you were a
bar, yeah. Oh man, we
were going to trick that
thing out. Intro. Yeah, exactly.
We had a superhero we
created called skip intro. You
had like an, a hit.
That was his name. Skip.
We drew him up. It
was skip intro. Yeah. Yeah.
I love that guy. That's
a really, actually a very
good idea. You know, one
of the things that I'm,
I'm surprised about, and again,
I understand that you're a
design insider, so you're not
only dropping names. I don't
know that you're dropping names
of companies. I don't know.
So I'm going to ask
you to explain who those
people are because people who
are listening won't know either,
but why is it that
the things that we think
we want from a design
perspective, like a minority report
and, you know, the TV
style animations were the most
significant thing. Our transitions between
States like that's the thing
about television and movie computers
is they all have very
fluid transitions. And the only
fluid transition that seems to
be left on the planet
is minimizing a window on
a Mac. And it there's
a little genie thing. You
know what I mean? And
no one else from like,
I've got a brand new
build here, a public build
of windows 10. And again,
the only cool animation is
the minimizing animation. Why are
we so lazy from a
transitions perspective, as you move
from page to page or
from state to state, we
do this for the movies,
but we won't do it
for the app. The application
that we use every day
does that mean that we
like those are fun to
watch in a movie, but
if you sat in front
of an animated transition system,
eight hours a day, you'd
start to go nuts. I
would have to agree that
that's, that's the situation. I
mean, we've done a ton
of user testing where we
sit with people on their
own equipment and watch, and
we'll, we'll have them open
some other apps that they
use and different things. And
one of the things we'll
see is they turn off
transitions. Really. People will find
a way to turn off
those transitions. Like when the,
that version of iOS came
out on the Mac that
had all those crazy transitions
going around. One of the
first things that hit Twitter
was how to turn it
off. Cause it was just,
you know, it was slowing
people down. And I think
there are people who love
those types of transitions, but
I don't think they're in
the majority. I actually met
a guy. I come blocking
on his name now, but
he does nothing but design
user interfaces for the movie.
Yeah. I saw that I
had a blog didn't they?
And here's all the cool
stuff I did. The movies.
Yeah, he did. Oh, it
was a shoot. I'm totally
blocking on it now, but
it was avatar. He did,
he did all that stuff
for avatar. And he said,
one of the amazing things
is as he's trying to
think through what will want
in the future, he gets
so much pushback that it's
not cool enough. And so
you have to go with
the, the extra pulse and
the different things. But you
know, to your point, if
you, if you look back
at star Trek, like the
original star Trek was Shatner,
they had those little square
floppy drives that were used,
right.  little, basically as
an SD card or a
CF cards, the size of
things, very prescient. I grew
up, you know, a lot
of us that were the
nerds that became nerd designers.
Right. We grew up with
that stuff. So I think
it was always in our
mind and we just wanted
to make it real, Like
the M L cars, L
C a R S. That's
the star Trek, next generation
style of colorful design. Yeah.
That that's something that, that
that's sneaks its way in
that we don't realize a
library, computer access and retrieval
system. If you go and
search for that, that's like
the, you know, unlabeled buttons
of a certain color and
a certain color tone. And,
you know, you think it
would be an awesome idea.
And they had like iPads,
you know, 30 years before
anyone had thought of an
iPad on the transitions side,
I was watching a star
Wars with the kids, the
original 1977 star Wars. Okay.
And this is what, you
know, 30, Oh gosh, almost
40 years old now. Right.
And the, you know, the
transitions that they would do
between, they would do wipes,
big, big, you know, star
wipe or big wedge wipe
or whatever. And it was
very jarring. And then after
the fifth or sixth one,
I was like, this is
not cool. Like I want
to jump cut, you know,
like just click and go
to the next. And you
know, it's one of the
few things in the original
star Wars that doesn't hold
up, You know, that's, that's
an interesting point because from
a practical effects, their practical
effects are so good. You
think they're CGI. Yep. But
their wipes make it look
dated. My 11 year old
daughter was in a verbal
that got a little heated
with a 13 year old
friend of hers because her
friend said she didn't understand
why everybody felt star Wars
was so great. And I
actually heard her say something.
I probably said at one
point, but she goes, because
it holds up what they
did back then determined what
we do today and, you
know, and she just went
off on it. And I
was just like, you know,
you look at the original
Battlestar or star Trek. And
obviously they weren't in that
same space. And I mean,
I don't know that Lucas
had a whole lot of
money, but he, I had
a whole lot of heart
man. Yeah. And the effort
that they put into that
and the way that they
combined all the different media
and you know, and that,
I think that still reflects
back to the web. Yeah.
Well, again, all these different
techniques, The combination, I think
you're right. Like it's, it's
a subtle effect and a
subtle, a timeless style. If
you look at things like
Indiana Jones, those things hold
up. So what are great
web things from the nineties
and the early two thousands
that hold up today. Wow.
That's a great question. You
know, it's yeah. There's certain
things that just haven't really
changed much. And whenever we
try to change them, they
fall back. Like navvies like
navigation. Yeah. The whole, the
whole left side left rail,
whether it be a hidden
left rail that slides in,
there's always a left rail
or a top rail There's
designated content area. I mean,
it's, it's not unlike a
book in that way that
you've got to cover in
pages and you're going to
go left to right. Will
we hit a plateau? Like,
are we trying to make
this thing something that it's
not like, like, why do
we need to keep pushing
the web? Are you guys
you web designers, just so
bored that you need to
come up with a new,
a new, crazy thing, like
scroll jacking. Well, I really
don't think it's that we
get so bored because the,
the thing is there's so
many new devices that keep
coming out. I think part
of it that like you
look at wearables, right? There
are a lot of shops
that are starting to position
themselves right now. I see
generalist shops doing, starting to
position themselves with wearables. They
may just be doing a
blog post on wearables. They
may be talking to a
designer from another shop who's
designed for wearables. There's a
great shop in, in Austin,
Texas called fun-size, which I
think is the ultimate. That
is a pretty good name,
although I'm not sure who
decided that that was the
size of fun because fun
side is always the smallest
candy. But yeah. So I
think, I think part of
what happens is we keep
trying to fit the same
ideas into different shapes. And
that's where Ethan Marcott, who
is the guy who came
up with responsive web design
when he actually coined that
term and started looking at
the math and figuring out
doing things based on break
points instead of actual sizes
that really opened up just
everybody's minds to what we
had to start doing. I
mean, there's sites now that'll
work on an 80 cent, 80
inch screen and on, you
know, a smaller, older Android
device. Yeah. I think that
definitely responsive design is a
fantastic idea that has not
yet even been, been like
touched, like you can do
the basics, you know, portrait
and landscape, but I've seen
some really cool sites do
transitions as you go from
portrait to landscape and like,
Oh, well we'll just rearrange
things like those are transitions.
I can really get behind
and feel positive about The
people who were trying. Right.
They're going to put that
extra effort in. We used
to have a saying that
the work doesn't start until
the client's happy. Right. As
soon as the client's okay,
then we're going to see
how much more we can
fit into this to make
it just to happy design
something that makes somebody go,
wow, I didn't expect that.
That was amazing. And that
comes because we started as
flash designers. So that was
always the thing we were
looking for. So it's funny
when Rachel says we all
got run out, a lot
of us just change clothes
really quickly, and we're still
here, but, but I think
responsive and all of the
new devices that are out
there, a lot of that
keeps us from rethinking the
way that we're delivering the
messages because we're having to
stand on our toes to
make sure it's consistent. Yeah.
I think also that we
don't think about a new
input devices enough. I mean,
w we're still kind of
stuck on touch and mouse,
but I think we're going
to see more and more
gesture based things. I think
one of the reasons that
the, this is my opinion
that the Google glass didn't
really jump was the, the,
the interaction model just didn't
work. I could never get
the thing to activate effectively
and you'd see people just
kind of flipping their heads
back, trying to the thing,
you know what I mean?
I'm trying to get the
thing to wake up and
listen. It's what was wrong
with that guy? You know,
I was at an event
and somebody at Google glass
and I watched him doing
that. And I was like,
I think he's having an
episode, but I don't want
to, he couldn't get the
thing to wake up. Now.
I know we, if you
look at the Xbox connect,
that device was so much
more powerful than any of
the technology X-Box actually put
out for it. I saw
a lot of the software
developers who grabbed it and
did things with it. And
there was one game and
I'm blocking on the name
for it. That was for
the Xbox. And I remember
I downloaded it after reading
about it. And you could
just control all of these
different elements in the game
with your Body gestures. It
was amazing. Yeah. It was
an example of where the
hardware is probably there, but
the software, no one has
any idea how to use
it. Yeah. And they don't
know if it's going to
sell. So there's not a
business case it's like to
hell with that. Do you
know the leap motion? Have
you use this? Now? The
leap motion is a tiny,
tiny device. I'm holding it
up to you. It's looks
like a stick, a gum,
and you hold it in
front of your computer. And
it sends IRR beams up
in the air and you
move your hand around. And
when it's one of those
demos, like you remember the
first time three or four
years ago that you saw
that it was an Israeli
company that had a, a
little device that would project
a laser outline of a
keyboard on your desk. And
we all like, you know,
the Internet's brain just collectively
exploded. Cause the demo was
Epic. But then when you
used it, it's like no,
slapping your fingers on a
hardwood desk is a dumb
way to type. That's not
going to work. And that
was the greatest. And now
it's just like in the
sharper image catalog, right? So
this thing went like internet
darling to piece of chotsky.
That's just sitting in a
catalog That I see every
time I get stuck on
Southwest airlines, The leap motion,
hardware, Epic, the, the, the,
the, the implementation of it,
of the software just involves
me flailing in front of
the screen and then giving
up. And I did a
blog post about it where
I said, leap motion, amazing
revolutionary useless. And it's sitting
here unplugged because here's an
example where some genius hardware,
people came up with a
way to notice your hands,
right. But they couldn't figure
out the way to make
the interaction model work. And
everyone wants, everyone wants minority
report, but nobody wants gorilla
arms. That's absolutely it. I
forget. We were a, and
that gets back to the
connect, playing with the kids.
And in my experience, kids
will give up on something
way before adults. They'll be
like, this is stupid. This
doesn't make sense. Yeah. We
were. I forget what game
we were playing. It was,
it might've been a wipe
out because there's nothing funner
than watching somebody try to
jump across five big red
balls. Right. I mean, it's
just hilarious to watch them
get hurt. So then you
try to do this in
your house. First of all,
ceiling fans are a big
issue and you're like jumping
and you're doing all this
stuff. But to actually set
the game up, you have
gorilla arms, you have to
move here. And then you're
like, Oh, I need to
start back further. And I've
got a chef over here.
And, you know, by that
time, you're back to Mario
cart and I've got, so
I've got a five year
old Was a little short.
So he's standing on a,
an Ottoman in front of
the connect. And the connect
is confused because his, his,
his body splits into legs
and then joins back together
into some giant foot because
it thinks that the Ottoman
is his foot. And the
connect is confused about why
he can't move this giant
foot. And then, you know,
my wife is a, is,
is black. So it can't
see her. And she's declared
that the connect is racist,
racist. I'm like, no, I'm
pretty sure it's not racist.
I think it's just the
lighting color. She's like, I
don't care. She's like, it's
not working. It can't see
me. So we're like adjusting
spotlights to get the thing
to work. And of course,
you know, firmware and a
year later it works. But
the point is that the
dream never quite matches up
with the reality. Yeah. How
many times, if you had
a design idea that you
thought was going to be
like, amazing and you showed
it in AB testing, it
just didn't work. I mean,
dozens, dozens of times, I
used to tell clients, the
reason we test things is
because we're wrong half the
time. So you hired us.
Let's make sure that we
both know that we're doing
something right. You know, and
even then you've got to
keep an eye on it.
Once you roll it out.
My daughter, again, my 11
year old at the time,
I guess she would have
been whenever the first iPad
came out, was it like
six years ago? And I
remember I got it and
I was playing with it
and she looked at it
and she asked me where
the camera was. And I
said, Oh, it doesn't have
a camera. This is more
for consuming and playing. And
she handed it back to
me Seriously. Like she just
declared up no cameras. No,
she went, She went back
to the phone. Right. And,
and then when the two
came out, we just saw
an ad for it on
television. And she looked at
me and she went told
ya. And I was like,
yeah, an Apple probably had
that in a closet. They
were just going to roll
it out. One, one different
feature at a time. So
that those of us that
are connected to them, you
know, by our juggler, I
swear I have, if ever
the unearth where I live
historians will think that there
was an Apple store there
because I probably have every
device from three or four
years ago. Great. About Apple
is that these are the
people that make you stand
in line for something and
think it's the greatest thing
ever. And then when the
next thing comes out, you
look at the previous thing
with disdain, like, how did
we ever survive with this
crap? What is this? Is
that a five S it
is. Yeah. What is that?
Yeah. What is that? We
can use that garbage. I
mean, I have a six
plus now, so it's the
perfect size, you know? And
I, look, I look at
the previous one, I can't
even look at a four
ass. Like, how did we
squeeze? I think it's just
me getting older. So maybe
it's just, Apple's aging demographic,
but just needs to One
of my favorite things Apple
is doing in the holiday
season. And this, this is
still a design thing. And
I, I, I don't know
if job's would have liked
it or not. I ask
myself that all the time
now with jobs like this,
I don't know. I don't
know the guy, but when
you walk by the Apple
store, so we have an
outdoor mall, this is huge
town center and there's an
Apple store. And then there's
a windows store just down
from it. Just like, maybe
not even a block on
the other side, when you
walk by the Apple store,
there's a line out front
that's kind of partitioned off
and there's a cop standing
there. And then if you
go down to the windows
store, it's like 20 employees
and a couple of people
inside the store. There's like,
nobody, there you go back
to the Apple store and
you look inside, there's only
six or seven people shopping.
What they've done is anybody
who had a preorder has
to wait outside in a
line. Yes. It's like getting
into the club. It is
it's it's, it's like, when
you own a restaurant that's
not popular. And you tell
the employees to park in
the front, you know, making
it look like there's somebody
here for God's sakes. Yeah.
Where do you, what do
you think? What do you
have ready to go for
2015? What web design thing
does the web design a
mafia have that we wouldn't
expect? Like, what's the most
revolutionary thing you've seen maybe
on a single individuals blog
like a designer, or you're
like, Oh, this is the,
this is going to be
something like, this is a
technique or a style. Like
what about like responsive images
people are talking about? Yeah.
Responsive images are definitely something
we're going to start seeing.
You know, it's interesting. I
think we'll see some people
fall back to some older
things like progressive enhancement or
graceful degradation. That's when camp
called it, What about progressive
enhancement was going to be
a thing and everyone was
talking about it. Oh, you
just checked for features. And
then you progressively get better.
And mobile first and then
responsive design happened. And then
everyone forgot about progressive enhancement.
But if you looking at
some of the wearables, The
responsive web design is just
not going to work. You're
going to have to find
a way to get that
information across. Assuming people want
to read a blog on
their watch. You know, I
don't think they will. I
think it's about alerts, but
I think there's another kind
of interaction that we haven't
thought about. Because right now
it's pretty clear that my,
my band or my Fitbit
or my, my pebble, whatever
is a notification. Right. You
know, like the Microsoft band
has a color screen and
a touchscreen and they call
it a right a right
wrist device. So the assumption
is you have a watch
on your left and on
the inside of your wrist,
not the outside. Right. Because
the more natural you kind
of go and look, Oh,
there's my notification. But what
happens? What doesn't happen? The
interaction model, I think we
haven't done is I touch
something on my wrist and
something happens on my phone,
on your phone, or I'm
working on a design on
my iPad. I'm stepping out
the door. Why am I
not lifting my hand up?
And somehow dragging it onto
the phone. And then, and
then leaving the continuation is
very blocky right now. Why
we stick it in Dropbox?
And then we go, and
we, Yeah, you do that.
Actually to that point, there's
a group called universal mind.
There's a group of a,
they do iOS development. They
do Android development, really big
ticket stuff. And they're really
on the forefront of some
of this. I've seen them,
I'm working with where they've
put together, like an, an
iPad table. And as people
are sitting around it, it
could be playing cards. It
is. And so, yeah, like
the original surface, like the
original surface only, it's the
size of like a really
big dining room table. Oh.
So it's really big. It's
really big. So you can
have 15 or 20 people
sitting around it. And if
somebody wants to share a
document, they kind of just
hit it on the table
and it goes in front
of where the seats are.
Right. And basically if you
put your phone down, it
knows that there's somebody at
that location. No. At the
micro Microsoft got this thing
called the Microsoft home. It's
like a, a, a pretend
house that they built inside
of a building. And then
they put all the cool
stuff there. So then dignitaries
and the Pope, they run
them through it. And one
of the things that I
thought was interesting is they're
making a giant table like
that the display technology doesn't
exist. Right. Right. So they
Mount tiny projectors on the
ceiling. So imagine you're sitting
in your kitchen and you're
like, I need a recipe.
And then it beams a
picture of the recipe down
onto the, onto the surface.
But rather than doing a
square window and projecting a,
a monitor onto your surface,
it does just the white
text. So it appears as
if the text is coming
out of the marble of
your, of your counter, right.
Gives you the sense that
your counter is this infinite,
infinite screen. That's, That's a
really cool way to go
about it. You put you're
right with the, the actual
projection surfaces. They aren't working
and just described the kind
Of thing that you'd see
in a movie again, where
you're like, let's, let's plan
how we're going to blow
the world up. And let's
all get in front of
the giant table. And then
what we don't have is
the three dimensional thing that
comes out of the table,
right? Like you would see
on agents of shield. Right.
That's one of their things
that is pretty phenomenal looking
Well, there's an, there's a,
there's a, a thought that
that might actually be happening
though. There's a, a new
startup. I think Neil's Steve,
the author, Neil Stevenson just
joined that startup. And they're
talking about, what is it
called? He just joined yesterday.
He wrote, he wrote snow
crash, right? Yeah. And the,
yes, and the, the it's
called magic leap is the
new thing. Every word, I
don't know what the word
leap is, but here we
go. Magic leap is an
arsenal of techniques to produce
a synthesized light field that
falls in the retina the
same way as light is
reflected from real objects. I
think that's a fancy way
of saying holograms, I think
the 3d table and it
could happen. Yeah. I mean,
and that would be amazing
what they've got a universal
mind right now that, that
I think is great is
when you start looking at
collaboration, those documents that you
share, I don't know exactly
how they have them hooked
up, but it's almost like
a shared document. So if
somebody starts writing on it,
it'll end up on the
master and ended up on
the other ones that people
are there. So for brainstorming
and things like that, it's
pretty cool. Yeah. Using, using
Google docs or office online,
the web versions, being able
to type and see the
other person type is so
helpful. Cause I'm a remote
worker. Yep. I though the
whole kind of like push
save and hit refresh. Now
I don't wanna do any
of that. I want to
see your keys. I want
to mice. I want to,
I want to send it
to somebody and see them
show up on the document.
Right. Right. Right. And, and
for remote workers, which that's
another trend, I think we're
going to see a lot
more in the way of
remote teams and remote teams
that form with located teams
at clients' locations and stuff,
that type of technology. Yeah.
That's critical. I'm a fan
of Slack, right? The chat
room for remote workers. I
actually work with Slack And
HipChat open all the time.
Right next to each other.
Because half of the teams
that I work with use
HipChat and half of them
use Slack. And it's really
a wild situation because basically
what they do is they
kind of take the place
of email and text and
I am, and all these
other things, they're kind of,
if, if you're a super
nerd, they're kind of what
IRC was back in the
day. And at some people
still use that. But the
things that I've found is
first of all, Slack, just
Scott, I don't know how
much it was. It was
like $18 million, a ton, a
ton and another round. And
I'm hip. Chad has got
nothing. Yeah. I mean, they're,
they're owned by Atlasian or
Lansing and I'm not sure
Say that, frankly, it's, it's
over for everyone else. That's
not Slack. Slack is going
to become the get hub
of that space. I, you
know, what sucks is HipChat
has really good video chat.
So if you're, you're going
with somebody and you just
hit video, it'll open it
up. And also it doesn't
handle emojis as well. And
I think that's where Slack
one, cause emojis are with
millions of dollars. My friend.
Yeah. I, you know, I
hate to believe that, but
you're right. And there's also
other more realtime, more video
thing. Like bluejeans.com is a
really amazing way to do
video. But for some reason
I find that older people
of my gender, people of
my generation love video and
the young people, they like,
they like texts. But all
I do, if I'm typing
to you about the third
sentence, my hands start to
hurt. And like, I'm just
going to pick up the
phone and talk to this
person. Why am I typing
to you? Another thing I
think we'll see next year.
And we're already seeing it
this year is where people
start to integrate with their
own photos and their own
videos. It's really easy now
to grab different items and
just throw them in on
the fly. So Snapchat, the
last update of Snapchat, you
can actually put emojis in
a picture with you. So
if, and this is my
13 year old is all
about Snapchat. And so when
she's doing a selfie, as
she does, she'll put in
like a big red representation
of a guy walking behind
her. And she'll be like,
like she's gotten scared by
this graphic that looks like,
except for being red, it
came right off a street
sign. You know, like those
slow kids who were always
playing in the neighborhood. So
that to me is kind
of exciting when you start
to see again, it's a,
it's a blending of different
media and really that's all
the hologram things going to
be. It's going to be
a new way to display
the information. Right. That's just
super, super cool. Yeah. I
th I really hope that
we have more ways to
move though, from device to
device, because if I'm going
to have a desktop and
a laptop and a tablet
and a wearable and a
phone, or whatever, the idea
of the feeling of like
throw it up into the
cloud and then bring it
back down again. Well, that's
probably what's going to happen
in the background. It doesn't
kind of feel right. So
I think I'm looking forward
to like apples, you know,
continue with the continuum or
continuity this idea that I'm
in one app here. And
I pick up right where
I left off. When you
move, like right now, we're
having a Skype, but I
know I have to run.
So what if I pick
up my phone and then
I just make a gesture
and you're on my phone
and then we can smooth,
but no, I hang up
and I'll call you back.
Yeah. Right. Which feels so
rotary. Well, it also feels
unnatural because yeah, I'm leaving.
Why aren't you coming with
me? I think that we'll
see video games are going
to lead that charge, right?
Yeah. That's true. Have you
seen smart glass? I've not
seen smart glasses. Smart glass
is really interesting. So if
you play like Assassin's creed
or halo or call of
duty, you're sitting there in
front of your Xbox and
you're doing your thing. And
then you're like, you know,
I wish I had a
map of what I'm doing.
Like an actual map. Well,
I've got this tablet. I
just log in and immediately
and knows I'm playing a
game. And it shows me
where I'm at. It's like
a GPS for your game.
And it's the mini that
usually goes up on the
screen, but it's on my
tablet. But the great part
is I can close down
the app and still interact
with the game on the
tablet. And then jump back
in. I was watching game
of Thrones on my Xbox,
and I couldn't figure out
who the heck that target
Aryan was. I load up
smart glass as a second
screen. And it puts up
a family tree of the
game of Thrones characters. All
that's amazing context of the
show I'm watching. Right. You
know, that that's an interaction
model. That's from a technical
perspective, extremely hard. Right. But
if they can make that
easy to write to, yeah.
That's going to completely change
how we think about the
web. Yeah. It gives those
enhancements. You know, I think
it was lost was probably
the first TV show that
created, you know, that the
Dharma initiative Dharma was a
real thing. You could log
into the Dharma website, you
could do all those things
and they would do different
updates throughout the show and
these types of things. I
think as much as you
can make other devices and
enhancement, it's just better. Monday
night football was doing that
for awhile. I don't know
that they still are. I
mean, yeah, if I'm watching
football, why am I not
getting of like a top
level view with icons? Don't
baseball, people have games like
that have have real time
graphics of exactly what play
is happening and it can
fast forward in time. Yeah.
Yeah. I think, I think
we'll definitely see a lot
more of that in 2015.
Very cool. Well, where can
people find you online at
Carl Smith? C a R L
Smith. I won't spell that
one for you. Well, I
think we should have you
on, on a regular basis
and because we can, we
can talk for hours. You'll
be my design reporter. There
you go. I'd love to,
I'd love to check in
and let you know what's
going on in the world
of design. Very cool. Thank
you so much, Carl Smith for
coming on Hansel minutes. This
has been another episode and
we will see you again
next week.